tonight we're going to be looking here at the second half of chapter 19.
So if you have your Bibles open there at Revelation chapter 19, we got through half of it last week, the first
10 verses, and we're going to pick up at verse 11.
But again, just to kind of orient ourselves.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to orient ourselves, then we're going to go through the actual text here, verse by verse is what we do on Wednesday nights.
We're going to finish out chapter 19.
And then I'm going to give kind of a synopsis of the second coming of Christ, because that's what we're talking about
tonight.
Here's again our timeline and it's important to always distinguish when we start talking about the second coming of Christ what sometimes people don't understand that we need to clarify is that the second coming of Christ really has two phases to it.
There is the first aspect of his second coming which is when Jesus only comes in the clouds
And he raptures his church.
He seizes his church.
He takes his bride up to heaven.
That's known as the Rapture, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, says we shall, you know, the dead in Christ will rise first.
And then we who are alive and remain will be called up together with them to meet the Lord in the air.
Called up together is Harpadzo in the Greek.
It is Raptus in the Latin.
That's where we get our English word, Rapture.
So there will be a generation that is taken,
physically snatched from the earth.
Jesus comes only in the clouds.
Trumpet call of God is sounded, and he takes his bride home.
Then there's gonna be a period of tribulation after that on the earth.
People will still be able to get saved, to come to faith in Jesus.
It's just gonna be a lot more difficult.
The circumstances will be a lot more excruciating.
There will be cataclysmic and destructive events happening on the earth.
At the hand of God, it's all part of God's final wake-up call to rouse an unbelieving world.
And so Jesus only comes first part of a second coming, only in the clouds.
Trump had called a God.
Church is taken up to meet the Lord, and so we shall be with the Lord forever.
The second aspect, however, of his second coming is what we're gonna be focusing on tonight.
That's the last part of chapter 19.
This is when Jesus actually comes back to earth itself.
And he is going to bring the saints with him who have been up in heaven up until that point.
And so he comes back to earth, and we're gonna talk specifically where exactly, because the Bible tells us where exactly he returns.
We just don't know when, but we should still be ready, because God has told us of these things in advance in his word.
But as I mentioned last week, Revelation 19 is about sounds and sights.
John writes about things that he sees and hears.
The first part of chapter 19 that we covered last week were about the sounds that he hears and he writes about things that he hears in heaven.
The second part we're going to see tonight are about things that he sees and the sights are about events that move from heaven to earth culminating in the second coming of Christ to earth and the punishment of the Antichrist and the false prophet.
So that's what we're going to be looking at.
the sites tonight from the last half of chapter 19.
So as we mentioned last week, the sounds that he hears in the first part, I heard verse one, heaven rejoicing over the destruction of the great harlot, that was chapter 18 and 19.
And then I heard in verse six, heaven rejoicing over the wedding banquet of the land.
So that's where we left off, we're gonna be now verse 11.
And let's just pause and pray and commit our Bible study to the Lord now as we
pick up our study in verse 11.
Let's pray first.
Father in heaven, we thank you now as we open up your word.
We look forward to your imminent return.
It is the hope of the church, Lord, as we start to get weighed down by things of this earth.
We need to be reminded and we thank you that you remind us in your word, that you are coming again.
You are coming again to take us from the earth to rescue us.
That heaven is our ultimate reward, that we're only
really passing through this world, but our ultimate citizenship is in heaven.
So guard our hearts until that great day, Lord, and may you find us faithful, watching and ready, anticipating your imminent return.
We love you.
We thank you, Lord, for your word tonight.
Bless it as we study it together in Jesus' name.
And everybody said, Amen.
If you'll notice in verse 11, he says, now I saw.
Circle that.
That is the first of the things that he sees here in this last half of chapter 19.
And to summarize the verses that we're going to read, he sees the second coming of Jesus with the saints.
And so verse 11, now I saw heaven opened and behold a white horse.
So for those of you who have always wondered, our animal's going to be in heaven, at least horses and dogs.
That's my personal preference.
I don't have a verse for it, but anyway, at least we know horses are going to be there.
And he who sat on him was called Faithful and True.
Of course, that's a reference to the Lord.
So we have this picture of Jesus returning riding on a white horse.
Now, I'm going to talk when I give the synopsis at the end of going through chapter 19 about the interesting contrast between his first coming and his second coming.
But just as a preview, I'm sure many of you are aware, remember his first coming into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday was on what?
a donkey, his second coming on what?
A white horse, two very different beasts.
The first one is coming meek and mild.
He's riding on a donkey.
The second coming of Jesus, he's riding on a white horse.
That's war.
That's victory.
That's our Lord who's coming in might and power and as king.
And so it's very different.
His second coming versus his first, notice his title there, faithful and true.
Back in Revelation 3, verse 14, remember the seven letters to the different churches.
In Revelation chapter 3, 14, when he identified himself to the letter of the church at Laodicea, he identifies himself with that title, the one who is faithful and true.
That's our Lord.
And he comes in righteousness.
He judges and makes war.
So he's coming as a warrior.
You know, first time he comes as a Savior.
Second time he comes here as a warrior.
And it says in verse
12 and his eyes were like a flame of fire.
So he's got justice.
That's the intent here.
So it's this picture of one who's coming to judge and to make war eyes like a flame of fire and on his head where many
crowns.
I don't know how he juggles all that, but it says many crowns.
And the Greek word for crown here is diodema, and it is different from other references in the book of Revelation, which speaks about a crown.
Stefanos, the Stefanos crown that the Antichrist wears was the equivalent of a laurel wreath
when back in that day they would run the Olympic Games and then they would get a crown.
This is Diadema.
This is a majestic royal, kingly crown, very different from the Stefano's crown, just made of laurel wreath.
So it's a picture here.
He's coming in might.
He's coming in majesty.
He's coming in power when he comes again.
And he had a name written, NIV says, on him,
But I'm reading New King James, and it doesn't have that prepositional phrase, but he had a name written that no one knew, except himself.
And he was clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God.
So he's coming in this, and we'll talk more about why is his robe dipped in blood.
This is not his own.
We're gonna talk in a moment about the significance of that when I draw the contrast between his first and second coming.
But notice his name is called the word of God, the word of God.
The Greek word for word is logos.
And logos means expression.
It means word or speech.
But back in Greek culture in the first century,
in Greek philosophy, they always understood logos to mean divine revelation.
So when John is using this term,
He is using it to express a term in his day that people would have understood that when Jesus is spoken of as the word of God, he is spoken of as the divine revelation of God himself, that he is the personification, the revelation, he is God in flesh.
John will like this word.
You remember in the Gospel of John, same writer, he begins his Gospel in chapter one saying, in the beginning was the word.
and the Word was with God and the Word was God.
It's that same word, logos in the Greek, the divine expression of God.
You know, it's interesting that John 1-1 goes back further than Genesis 1-1 because when it speaks in Genesis 1-1 about in the beginning, God created.
Well, John goes back even further than that in John 1-1 when he says in the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God, that he talks about
who Jesus is and God is even before creation account of Genesis 1.
But again, he is that logos.
He is that full expression of God, that divine revelation, that divine reason of who God is.
He's God in flesh.
And verse 14 says, and the armies in heaven clothed in fine linen, white and clean, followed him on white horses.
Now, these are not angels.
When it speaks here about the armies in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, one of the best things I ever learned in Bible college was the best commentary on the Bible is the Bible.
And so when you glance back up in verse eight, same chapter, just glance back up in verse eight, it talks about, well actually, let me read back up in verse six, you get the full context.
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude as the sound of many waters and as the sound of mighty thundering saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns, let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory for the marriage of the Lamb has come and his wife or his bride has made herself ready.
Okay, who's the bride of Christ?
The church, we are.
So the next verse says verse eight, and to her that is the saints, the church,
It was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
So it's a picture of the church clothed in the righteousness of Christ.
So when you go back down to verse 14, and it says, and the armies of heaven clothed in fine linen, white and clean, followed him on white horses, it is descriptive of the church wearing the white fine clean linen given to them as the expression of the righteousness that they have gained in Christ alone.
So verse 14 is not about angels coming back with Jesus, it's about us.
It's about the saints.
It's about those who have gone on to be with the Lord in heaven,
before his second coming will return with him.
And guess what?
We all get white horses too.
So there's a lot of white horses up there.
And if some of you like, well, I've never ridden a horse before.
Well, you will in that day.
And it's going to be OK.
The thing isn't going to buck you off or take you on a wild chase.
I remember the first time that I rode a horse.
That's exactly what happened.
And anyway, I won't go into that story, but it was supposed to be a nice trot through a field, it ended up being a strong gallop through the woods.
But anyhow, verse 15, now out of his mouth goes a sharp sword.
So this is a picture of Jesus now coming to rule, to judge the sharp sword, that with it he should strike the nations.
Okay, now remember,
This is going to lead into the second thing that he sees.
So he's judging the nations that have gathered for the Battle of Armageddon.
The Battle of Armageddon is the climactic event that happens at the end of the tribulation period.
And it is that event which Jesus comes to settle.
He's going to defeat the armies that have gathered for Armageddon.
But I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but this is why he's coming with a sharp sword that he should strike the nations.
The nations we're talking about are the nations that have gathered against him at Armageddon, and he himself will rule them with a rod of iron.
Now, that's interesting because a rod of iron also in his letter to the Georgia Thyatira back in Revelation 2, 27, tells us that he will also rule with a rod of iron.
It is a picture really for us of
the messianic rule of our Lord.
In fact, in Psalm chapter two, which is a messianic chapter in Psalm, in Psalm two, it says this, verses seven to nine, I will declare the decree.
The Lord has said to me, you are my son.
Today I have begotten you.
This is a messianic prophecy about Jesus.
Psalm 2 verse 8, ask of me and I will give you the nations for your inheritance and the ends of the earth for your possession.
You shall break them with a rod of iron.
You shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel.
So this is the Lord coming again to earth.
All right, the second phase of a second coming.
And it tells us they're the rest of verse
15, he himself treads the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.
Now notice that because this is a picture, he's trampling out the grapes, he treads the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.
So the expression that John is using here is basically this, that God's enemies are going to get crushed like grapes in a wine press.
That's what he means.
And there's a whole other messianic passage about this in Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 63.
If you want to write in the margin of your Bibles, Isaiah 63 verses one through six.
I'll read it to you.
This is what it says.
Who is this who comes from Edom with dyed garments from Basra?
This one who is glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength.
I who speak in righteousness might be to save.
Why is your apparel red and your garments like one who treads in the wine press?
Now listen carefully, this is going to explain why his robes will be stained with blood.
This is not his own blood.
Listen to this.
I have trodden the wine press alone and from the peoples, no one was with me, for I have trodden them in my anger and trampled them in my fury.
Their blood is sprinkled upon my garments.
And I have stained all my robes, for the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.
I looked, but there was no one to help, and I wondered that there was no one to uphold.
Therefore my own arm brought salvation for me, and my own fury, it sustained me.
I have trodden down the peoples in my anger, made them drunk in my fury, and brought down their strength to the earth.
That's what Isaiah writes in Isaiah 63, verse 6, verses, and he's speaking prophetically about the time that Christ will come and put an end to the enemies that have gathered against Israel and the God of Israel.
And his own garments will be stained with the blood of his enemies as he crushes them like grapes and a wine press.
We have a hymn about it, right?
Verse 16, and he has on his robe and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
So there's a name written on his robe, this title, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and on his thigh.
Yes, Jesus will have a tat.
For those of you always wanting to know, is it okay if I have tattoos?
Jesus has one, that's all I can tell you, it's gonna have one on his thigh.
Amen.
Verse 17, then I saw, here's the second vision that he sees you.
Number two, he says, I saw verse 17, and just to summarize what we're about to read, he sees the destruction of the armies gathered for war at Armageddon.
Then I saw an angel standing in the sun.
Now, it doesn't mean he's literally in the sun, it just means the brightness, like he sees this angel in the brightness of the sun, just reflecting the great glory of God.
And this is not Jesus himself, this is an angel.
And he cried with a loud voice saying to all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven.
This is kind of a gross scene here, but this is just what it's going to be.
Come and gather together for the supper of the great God that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and those who sit on them and the flesh of all people free and slave both small and great.
When the battle of Armageddon happens and Jesus returns and defeats all his enemies, there's just going to be carnage.
And this angel will summon these vultures and these scavenger birds to come and devour the flesh of all that have fallen in the battle.
And so there's this, it's kind of a gruesome scene here, but this is, this is what's going to happen.
The word flesh, there is mentioned five times.
It's a picture of, of not just literal flesh, but it's a picture of just, you know, the, the sin of people.
And, and notice, you know, when God comes to judge, all stations of life get judged.
Because he talks here about kings, captains, mighty men.
And he talks at the end there, flesh of all people.
free, slave, both small and great, like God's judgment is not reserved for a certain class of people.
If they have disobeyed God, if they've sinned against God, they're going to get judged, doesn't matter what their station is in life.
God's judgment shows no discrimination.
I mean, if we don't get our hearts right with Him, we are all subject to His judgment.
The good news is when we get right with Him, we accept Christ as our Savior,
that even though we've sinned and done wrong and displeased him and disobeyed him, that God's mercy is poured out upon us.
And His grace is given unto us.
We don't deserve it.
There's nothing we can do to earn it.
But God loves us so much that when we put our faith and trust in His only remedy for the salvation of our souls, which is belief in Jesus as the Son of God who died for our sins.
God pours out His grace, His forgiveness, and His mercy towards us.
And we don't have to suffer the consequences for what we've done because that's what Jesus paid for on the cross.
Is anybody happy about that?
Amen.
Yeah, praise God for that.
This is a gruesome scene here, but a reminder to us that we don't need to suffer for the consequences of our sin, because if we trust Christ, He takes that penalty for us.
I do want you to notice, though, that they're mentioned in verse 17.
He speaks here about the common gather together for the supper of the great God.
There are two suppers mentioned here in chapter 19.
The other one we looked at last week, where it talks back in verse 9 about the
the Supper of the marriage of the Lamb.
That's a Supper of joy.
This is a Supper of judgment.
Two different Suppers happening in chapter 19.
The first half is about a Supper of joy.
This half is about a Supper of judgment.
Verse 19, and I saw, so here's the last thing that he sees here, and I saw
which summarizing the verses we're going to read is the punishment of the beast, which is the antichrist and the false prophet in the lake of fire.
He says in verse 19, and I saw the beast.
That's the antichrist, the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him.
That's Jesus who sat on the horse and against his army.
Those are the saints.
That's the church.
And then the beast was captured, the antichrist.
and with him the false prophet who worked signs in his presence by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image.
These two, meaning the antichrist and the false prophet, were cast alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone.
and the rest were killed with the sword, which proceeded from the mouth of him, Jesus, who sat on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh.
So John sees here, and he writes about the end of the Battle of Armageddon, and Jesus has victory over all his enemies, and one of the things that he does here, Jesus, is he takes the Antichrist and the false prophet, and he casts them alive,
into the lake of fire, the lake of fire burning with brimstone.
If you'll jump over, just give you a quick preview into next week's study, chapter 20.
If you look at verse 10 of chapter 20, it says, the devil who deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast, the antichrist, and the false prophet are.
Because see, they get thrown there in chapter 19, and the devil gets thrown there in chapter 20.
and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Some people have the misconception that the lake of fire, and they think this about hell for that matter, which are different things, that you get annihilated and you get burned up.
If you go to hell, the fires of hell will burn you up or you get thrown into the lake of fire, you get burned up.
It's not annihilation.
You realize that every soul lives forever.
Every soul lives forever is just a question of where, because what it tells us there is they will be tormented day and night forever and ever, that the lake of fire is not annihilation, it's perpetual suffering forever and ever.
It's a day that obviously we read about in the Bible and the Lake of Fire is real.
We're going to talk about it more next week.
But let me give you a synopsis now of the events related to the Second Coming of Christ.
For those of you who love Bible prophecy,
You'll want to be reminded of some things that Zechariah tells us.
And I'm just going to put a few verses on the screen for you.
I'm going to try to summarize all this and tie it together.
But Zechariah said this in chapter 14, verse 4.
And in that day, his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east.
And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west, making a very large valley.
Half of the mountain shall move toward the north and half of it toward the south.
So it tells us exactly where Jesus will return what point on the earth when he actually comes back to the earth, second phase of the second coming.
And it tells us it's gonna be the Mount of Olives there in Jerusalem, which is consistent with Acts chapter one, when Jesus ascended back into heaven after he rose from the dead, okay, he appeared to his disciples for another 40 days, he was on the earth, and then he was taken up into heaven where he presently is, okay, and he's gonna come again.
But it tells us in Acts chapter 1 that when he had said his final words to his disciples that he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight.
This is Acts 1, 10.
And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold two men stood by them and wide apparel.
These are angels.
who said, men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven, this same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven.
And then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day journey.
So Acts 1 tells us that Jesus ascended back into heaven from the Mount of Olives.
And the angel say there in Acts 1, he's going to come back to the Mount of Olives.
And this is exactly what Zechariah the prophet says.
So when Jesus comes back to earth, it's not going to be Leesburg.
That would be wonderful, but it's not.
It's going to be Jerusalem.
It's going to be the Mount of Olives, just their east of Jerusalem.
And also in Zechariah, he tells us this in chapter 14, verses 6 and 7.
It shall come to pass in that day.
that there will be no light.
The lights will diminish.
It shall be one day which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but at evening time, it shall happen that it will be light.
In other words, on the day that Christ actually returns, it will be light in every part of the world.
Right now, we operate on the rotation of the earth, and so we have these 24-hour day periods, and so it's morning, and then it's evening, and it's light, and it's dark.
On the day that Christ returns is gonna be a unique day unlike any other day, there will be no darkness anywhere in the earth and everybody will see him.
Now listen, we're living in a day when because of technology, it's possible to see all around the world at the same time.
And so it's gonna be a marvelous day when Christ returns.
Notice these two verses, I'm gonna show you first Zechariah 12 and then Revelation 1.
Zechariah 12, verse 10, and then they will look on me, Jesus,
whom they pierced.
Yes, they will mourn for him as one mourns for his only son and grieve for him as one grieves for a first born.
Very similar to what we read in Revelation 1-7, behold, he is coming with clouds and every eye will see him even they who pierced him and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him even so, amen.
Let me put up a quick contrast to the first and second coming of Jesus.
His first coming, when he came to earth as a baby grew up, died for our sins.
His first coming, he was gentle riding on a donkey as he comes into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, the week of his crucifixion.
It tells us that his eyes were filled with tears in Luke 19.
It says, as he drew near Jerusalem, he saw the city and he wept over the city because he said, if you had only known
This day, the things that make for your peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes.
And then Jesus prophesies about how the Romans will come and build an embankment against the city and they will destroy the temple and it happened.
But he comes with eyes in his tears.
He also came wearing a crown of thorns when he was crucified.
They fashioned a crown of thorns and placed it upon his head.
And when he died, Jesus'
blood was on his enemies.
They pierced him, they nailed him to a cross, and so his blood was on them as they crucified him.
But very different from his second coming.
His second coming, he will be making war riding on a white horse.
This is what we already talked about.
Very different from riding on a donkey.
His eyes will be ablaze with fire.
That's what we read in verse 12.
He won't be wearing a crown of thorns.
It tells us in verse 12 also he will be wearing many crowns.
And Jesus' blood won't be on his enemies.
His enemies' blood will be on Jesus as he tramples his enemies like grapes in the winepress.
And he is coming again.
And Paul writes to us in Philippians two verse eight and he says, and being found in appearance as a man,
He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even death of the cross.
And therefore, God has also highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, and those in heaven and those on earth and those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God, the Father.
This is the way I look at it, folks.
You can either bend the knee to him now, or bend it in that day.
But every knee will bow at some point to Jesus, and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord.
It's much better to do it now than to do it then.
Amen?
He's coming again.
It is the hope of the church.
Amen, and amen.
Raise his name.
Let's pray, and then Austin's gonna come and lead our prayer time.
Lord, thank you for your word that is reminding us of your imminent return.
Our eyes are fixed on you, Lord, and our hope is in you, the author and finisher of our faith.
We look forward to that great day, Lord, when you shall return to receive us in the clouds, and then to return to the earth where you will rule and reign.
This is our hope, Lord.
This is our joy.
We love you, and we praise you in Jesus' name.
Amen, and amen.